# FAQ - Tokens

## Why is TEA considered a utility token?
  TEA tokens are a measure of how much computing resources are used for a computing task. For example, whn you click the "buy token" button in the TAppStore application, that sets off a series of computational tasks on many servers (we call them TEA nodes). These TEA nodes are run by our community members like you who we call miners. They need to get paid for providing such computing services for the enduser. TEA is the token we use to measure how much you need to pay them. This is similar to Ethereum's gas fee.

## What is COFFE and why do community members earn it during the various Epochs?
Prior to Epoch 12, the ERC20 toke COFFEE was 1:1 exchangeable to USD. That was because at that time it was a USD reward given to community testers. Beginning with Epoch 12, COFFEE is no longer exchangeable to USD. It's instead used to exchange to mainnet TEA when the mainnet launches. In other words, you can use the COFFEE you earn today to buy mainnet TEA tokens as if you were using USD. 

COFFEE is our community voting token used in the [[Governance-Structure]].  When the mainnet launches, every user's COFFEE will give them voting power towards deciding on governance issues. We have not decided on the name of the actual voting token that users can exchange their COFFEE towards. It may be called a "reputation" or "contribution" token. In order to get more mainnet TEA and higher voting power in DAO voting, a user should get as much COFFEE as possible during the Epochs. Once mainnet launches, then there will be other ways to earn this voting token not tied to COFFEE.