# The TEA Project's Epochs

- [Epoch 2](_epochs/Epoch-2.md) was the first epoch where contestants participated in the TEA mining contest. 
- [Epoch 3](https://teaproject.medium.com/the-tea-projects-epoch-3-mining-contest-e6246de64ee1) introduced the concept of COFFEE as CML coupons were no longer free. A more in-depth post detailing the changes from epoch 2 are available [here](_epochs/Epoch-3.md).
- [Epoch 4](https://teaproject.medium.com/tea-project-whats-new-in-epoch-4-d0728418ea3a) introduced TApps (and their tokens) which could be created by contestants to earn a portion of its revenue.
- [Epoch 5](_epochs/Epoch-5.md) introduced cloud computing-based mining to the TEA Project's mining contest.
- [Epoch 6](_epochs/Epoch-6.md) did away with COFFEE as contestants now had to use their own crypto funds to purchase CML contest vouchers. A new type of social networking TApp called [TEA Party](https://github.com/tearust/teaproject/wiki/TApp:-TEA-Party) is also available to create.
- [Epoch 7](_epochs/Epoch-7.md) introduces weekly redemptions for mainnet CML vouchers as we move beyond USDT rewards. More about the rewards arrangement is available [here](_epochs/Epoch-7-Reward-Details.md).
- [Epoch 8](_epochs/Epoch-8.md) has the goal of making the block size smaller by reducing tipping frequency and moving more logic from layer-1 to layer-2 as we work to get our layer-1 as streamlined as possible as we look forward to becoming a parachain in the Dotsama ecosystem.
- [Epoch 9](_epochs/Epoch-9.md) reintroduces COFFEE as a proxy for bridged-USD and improves its price stability to more tangible backing. Epoch 9 also sees an improved release of the TEA Party TApp that includes private messaging. We also have a new guide on how to earn as an investor instead of being a miner available [here](_epochs/Epoch-9-Stake-TApp-Tokens.md).
- [Epoch 10](https://medium.com/@teaproject/epoch-10-users-guide-5bfa60142d14) introduces a new type of mining, the seat maintainer nodes, which are responsible for running TEA's state machine. There's also a new Investments tab in the TApp Store that shows all of the various investment entities available to users.
- [Epoch 11](https://teaproject.medium.com/latest-tea-project-developments-for-epoch-11-ee3fa98381f3) marks the TEA Project's move to the Ethereum blockchain as our layer-1. In addition, Epoch 11 refines are hosting model such that end-users are responsible for picking the hosting node to run TApps, not the TApp developers. More information about Epoch 11 is available in our [user guide](https://teaproject.medium.com/epoch-11-testers-guide-7657cd2ff7da).
- [Epoch 12](https://teaproject.medium.com/tea-projects-epoch-12-launch-1c1790621bba) is actually the official launch of TEA Project on Ethereum (Epoch 11 was more of a testing stage). Epoch 12 also re-introduces the TEA Fluencer app as the main entry point for new users seeking a faucet to join the contest.